- [Instructor] At some point in a batch job,
you may need to take control of batch processing
and introduce your own logic.
That's where listeners come into play.
Listeners provide hooks into the flow
of a job at various points that allow you
to introduce additional batch processing logic
for complex use cases.
There are many listener interfaces
within the framework at the job, step, chunk,
and item levels of the domain.
Listener implementations are created by implementing
an interface, or adding annotations to a POJO,
then registering the listener
at the appropriate configuration level.
Registered listeners are notified
by the framework at key points.
For example, AfterStep completion.
Once notified, job processing logic found
in the listener is invoked to perform
its particular logic at the appropriate point
in the batch execution flow.
So let's say you need to introduce some header information
to a file created within a job.
After the step writes the file,
you may introduce a listener to add
the header information once the step is executed.
Here is a list of the available listeners
within the framework that can be applied
at various levels of the framework according
to your requirements.
You can see that a listener exists for almost
every object within the batch domain,
allowing logic to be introduced typically before
and after these components execute.
Soon, we'll be working with a step execution listener
that allows us to interject logic before
or after a step executes.
The step execution listener interface defines
a beforeStep method that is invoked prior
to step execution and an afterStep method
that is invoked once the step has been completed.
Let's move on and get hands-on with this listener,
so you can see it in action.